everyone welcome back another hardware
news recap for the week in this one and
videos got another lawsuit on its hand
the comet way cast availability and the
lack thereof is a topic we'll be talking
about as well we got some commentary on
Intel and when to expect additional
comment like s CPUs and the ten series
of intel's new cpu launch asa tech
doesn't understand math apparently is
something we need to talk about as well
microsoft going back on its old comments
about open source being cancerous so
they've they've changed sides at least a
little bit as rock and be CLK
overclocking for non k intel chips and
some additional stories before that this
video is brought to you by msi on the zi
490 unify ITX motherboard for intel 10
series CPUs the msi z 490 unify i TX
board benefits from a memory layout that
makes memory overclocking easy
positioning the board well for
enthusiasts who want to think around a
bench or in an ITX system the msi z 490
unify runs 90 amp power stages a 10
layer PCB and seats the memory as close
to the socket as possible
all of which benefit the overclocking
experience learn more at the link in the
description below
first up really short update on the GN
mouse mat it's insane to think that it's
only been a week since we announced
these but we lined up all these videos
with the announcement and some
additional notices in like the news
videos and they're gone so I thought
that we ordered six months of inventory
of these based on previous sales numbers
for the other stuff we've sold but
apparently people really really like
these which is awesome except we sold
out within 48 hours so my apologies on
that we do have them on backorder we are
getting more in it was not a limited
product and is not intended to be a
limited product so we have another order
in manufacturing now it's just that it
was much sooner placed in this order
than we thought it would be so that's
obviously a great problem to have on one
side because it sold well and that's
good for us and supports the channel and
then it's obviously a little bit
annoying on the other because we don't
have inventory to ship out so if you got
your order in then it is on the way you
should have gotten a shipping email
where you will get one in the next
couple of days our warehouse guy is
extremely busy and if you couldn't get
it in time then you can backorder these
on store deck gamers excess net and we
have information on that page of one
the back orders are expected to come in
so it's in manufacturing thank you for
the tremendous support we're really
happy to see all the people on Twitter
who've been sending us photos of their
Matt and their setup so when you get it
in feel free to tweet it at us and if I
see it well retweet it out and the other
thing is it's made me realize all of our
audience has a better setup than I do
personally because everybody seems to
have four monitors I'm sitting here with
one and an FX 83-70 at my house like
apparently some kind of peasant compared
to the rest of our audience so anyway
really cool to see all that thank you
for the support comment like ass
availability update a quick update on
this
we spoke with Intel regarding the
availability of the new CPUs in the 10th
generation this is something that we're
trying to do more as products launch
especially in the silicon families
because as you all likely know typically
when a new CPU or GPU launches the
availability isn't always there or it's
a paper launch or it's just not clear
when it stuff it's coming out we
followed up with Intel on this and asked
what's the deal with the CPUs Intel said
quotes the unlocked 10th gen processors
are coming to market first including the
core I 9 10 900k core i7 10 700 K and
Core i5 10 600 K the 10th gen core i3 10
100 and 10th gen core i3 10 three hundo
as we're going to call it are expected
to be available shortly after the 10th
gen unlocked case queues furthermore
Intel told us that it would keep TN
updated on the availability of the i5
10600 GAE in particular because this is
the one that from what we've seen our
audience seems the most receptive to are
interested in so we're gonna try and
keep an eye on that one and when it's
coming into stock as for everything
that's not a case key you know K
designation at the end that availability
is later in the future Intel's
prioritizing its production on case
queues so there's all be available first
the quantities of those were not sure
about we did see that some sold out
pretty much instantly so it's even
multiple 100 billion dollar companies
have the same problem we do apparently
except there's a silicon but we're
supposed to get more updates on
availability over the coming weeks and
it does look like case Keys first if you
want an on case queue the only one who
saw there was 10 400 and the rest we
don't know when they're coming to market
next one asa tech doesn't understand
math for its radiator card or is maybe
misrepresenting its math if we're going
to get
the benefit of the doubt ASA Tech is the
company behind both desktop and data
senator liquid cooling solutions it's
been one of the largest they've been
dropped recently by several of the
manufacturers in the DIY space as they
venture out and do their own designs or
get less scared of being sued by ASA
tech and that means that we've seen a
bit of a change in how haystack spend
marketing and sign its products it's
huge and data center are still pretty
big in desktop DIY they make all the
EVGA CLC's all the NZXT CLC's they've
sort of been pulled off of the corsair
CLC's has gone to cool it but they are
still popular so they've got a new
design that's been trotted out aimed at
being deployed for liquid cooling GPUs
are particularly in restricted cases as
in computer cases the new design is
known as the rad card originally it's
like some kind of surfer rad card thing
we don't really know where that maybe
radiator that might be it as is probably
obvious given the name the rad card is a
card with radiator and it socket into a
lower slot so this gives you all the
looks of SLI without any of the lack of
performance but probably a similar price
this includes a shroud and everything
else it sockets into a PCIe slot the rad
card is being deployed initially as an
OEM only option with specific deployment
in Alienware systems and that would be
the Aurora
r11 PC you can see that there are two
populated PCIe slots in the Aurora r11
and one of those is a 20 80 super and
then the other one is the rad card so
that's got the tubing it's kind of like
a hybrid solution except it's in a PCIe
slot and uses a blower fan to get the
air out of the case instead of a
radiator in a standard 120 slot so a
short run tubing between them a stack
lays claim to the following performance
numbers they say on their website quote
with alienware is that liquid cooled at
2080 super GPU you can reduce noise by
up to 69 percent and GPU temperatures by
up to 20 percent except you you can't
really do this mathematically
temperature we've been through this
before temperature is an arbitrary scale
it doesn't start at zero and just to
provide an example 50 degrees Celsius to
100 degrees Celsius let's just strip the
measurement you
measurement from a strictly numerically
50 to 100 as a doubling or 100% increase
let's convert that to Kelvin which will
give you the same temperature the same
energy ultimately that's being talked
about here you converted Kelvin and now
you're at 323 point one five two three
seventy three point one five so now your
scale is a 15% increase despite the
actual like if you touch it it's the
same it's gonna burn you just as much as
if it were measured in Celsius and it's
gonna burn you just as much as if you
call it a 100 percent increase whereas a
15% increase because it's an arbitrary
scale it doesn't start at zero at least
force all season and Fahrenheit so this
is not really an accurate way to market
it at best and it's actually just wrong
at worst you really if you want to use
percentages to talk about thermals it
should all be converted to Kelvin but
that's not how people work or do things
or perceive temperature so it's not
really gonna work that way either it's
just best to not use percentages at all
when talking about thermals but ace
attack' cooling company that specializes
in thermals decided this is what they're
going to do so the percentage if you'd
convert to Kelvin certainly wouldn't be
as high as 20 and wouldn't look as good
so they're probably using Sal's degree
Celsius as far as a noise reduction of
69% this also means absolutely nothing
to anyone beyond the meme status we
don't know what unit of measurement
they're using for noise it's just out
there just 69% reduced noise so if it's
decimal decimals decibels then that's
logarithmic scale and it's not it
doesn't you can't really just do like
linear math for it especially with
percentages we don't know what they're
using for that but either way especially
without knowing how far away the
measurement was taken and what
conditions it was taken it doesn't mean
anything so bad marketing for a product
that actually looks interesting is
unfortunately the alternative name to
our channel but it was too long the rad
cart is currently OEM only haystack
teased on Twitter that it may not stay
that way it does look like a genuinely
interesting product and is one we'd like
to test but the marketing is up there
with zalman next one as ROC bee clock
frequency boosting for
9k Intel CPUs we've been hearing rumors
for some time about the possibility of
overclocking non-case gears on Intel
CPUs and not only on the new z4 90
asrock motherboards but also on select B
and H series motherboards while the
rumors were a bit vague they pointed to
the concept of increasing the B clock
rather than the CPU multiplier this is
something that is absolutely not new B
clock tunings been around for ages and
you could do it also on non kcp is sort
of in the past but it's always been a
bit limited so here is where as Rock's
doing something a bit different the idea
is that with the 10th john c p use and
on the non z motherboards critically
asrock wants to be able to fulfill the
option of doing some overclocking
against what looks to be like Intel's
desires at this point what we do know is
that as Rocket DS it has a base
frequency boost feature called B FB
technology so I mean as ROC is using and
they built it into its 300 and 400 trees
motherboards via new BIOS updates what
exactly as ROC is doing to make bfp work
is a bit nebulous and it will probably
remain that way if we were to venture a
guess it likely has something to do with
tweaking the pl state on on the CPUs so
in a leaked image it was clear that as
ROC was able to force a 70 watt CPU so
operate as if it were 125 watts allowed
PL so this would obviously have
implications for your cooling solution
it's also subject to provoke the
unwanted ire and gaze of Intel and
that's a point that even as ROC has
apparently accounted for quote due to
future Hardware firmware updates or
other reasons the availability of bfb is
subject to change without further notice
or without notice in advance that's what
the fine print says and it's denoted
with an asterisk over at as Roxby FB
page this isn't the first time as Rock
has done something like this typically
if you want to keep an eye on
controversial motherboard manufacturers
who do cool things that are against what
Intel and AMD want the companies to keep
an eye on are as rock and then probably
Biostar those are the two companies that
do the most sort of gray area of stuff
that Intel names you don't want them to
do and it often gets patched
but if you can get the board early and
if you get that version of the bio so
you don't care up microcode updates
later or a G sob dates Randy then you
get a cool feature that other people
aren't gonna have so for now it seems
like base clock overclocking for the non
K Intel chips on GH and B as ROC
motherboards is a go until it's not
we'll see what happens we're a bit
skeptical that Intel won't nuke this
with a firmware update that would have
been all but guaranteed pre rise in any
way Intel has long held overclocking as
a luxury that's worth paying extra for
and limited as a feature to the most
expensive letters in the alphabet which
obviously the the most expensive and
rarest of letters would include K and X
a spread that's a good one X is way up
there that's one of the most expensive
letters actually because if you've
noticed when companies put X in their
products name the cost is higher because
actually not a lot of people know this
but it costs more to print the letter X
on a box or product the when you talk to
the factories if you add an X to it the
price is way higher because it's hard to
do so those are the most expensive
letters and that means that overclocking
is limited to those because a special
feature so we'll see a Verizon and the
Rison effect has changed Intel stands to
make them blast aggressive towards
motherboard partners foregoing sort of
in uncharted territories but that'll be
determined in the near future
assuredly asrock currently has a list of
supported Z H and B motherboards that
have B FB through bios's that are
available now or shortly next up Nvidia
lawsuit Nvidia has allegedly been
disguising crypto revenue as gaming the
suit against NVIDIA dates back to 2017
with a class action complaint filed
early last year and it seems to be
gaining some steam the new information
here is that the class action complaint
has been amended to suggest that Nvidia
obfuscated as much as 1 billion dollars
in cryptocurrency revenue by disguising
it as gaming revenue the reason for this
allegedly was because Nvidia knew that
the crypto mining boom wouldn't last
this would have painted the false
picture that and videos massive resin
revenues at the time were insulated from
the unpredictable volatility of crypto
mining thus misleading investors and
shareholders of true this also would
have suggested that Nvidia's gaming
segments would have been more profitable
and bigger than
actually was at the time again
potentially misleading investors the
complaint specifically names nvidia
senior management that would include CEO
jensen wan CFO his jacket and then also
CFO call it cress and SVP jeff fisher
the culprits allegedly behind what was
going on so shareholders at the moment
are seeking damages for what the
shareholders maintain are violations of
the federal securities laws and as for
how this plays out in court or more
likely get settled outside of court
we'll follow up on it once we have more
news but this has already been in the
system for a long time now
next up TSMC cuts off huawei as the u.s.
regulations grow stricter the US
department of commerce recently
announced that it has an amended export
rule and it's aimed directly at huawei
and its wholly owned chips design arm
high silicon the amended export rule
dictates that any foreign chip makers
using american IP technology or
equipment will have to apply for a
license before ship into huawei and last
year waves were made when the u.s. added
huawei to the entity list essentially
black listing them from doing business
with the us-based companies key
suppliers like arm and google quickly
retracted their business with Huawei and
despite this the Department of Commerce
asserts that the company has continually
undermined the entity list quote despite
the entity list actions the Department
took last year Huawei and its foreign
affiliates have stepped up efforts to
undermine these national security based
restrictions through an indigenous ation
effort however that effort is still
dependent on US technologies said
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross ever
since the entity list actions TSMC has
been caught in the middle of the
geopolitical spat between the US and
China with pressure on the chip maker
over its relation with Huawei Huawei is
TSMC second largest customer behind
Apple so it quickly became apparent as
to why TSMC was reluctant to sever ties
however in response to the amended
export rule the SMC has now apparently
halted all orders from Huawei for an
akai asian review quote TSMC has stopped
taking new orders from hallway after the
new rule change was announced to fully
comply with the latest export control
ray
a person familiar with this situation
told nikai this news comes as tsmc
formally announced plans to build a five
nanometer mega fab in the state of
arizona
Microsoft confirms that it was on the
wrong side of history they've conceded
with the open source debate Microsoft
has officially admitted that it was
wrong about open source and mind you
this is the same Microsoft that had
former CEO Steve Ballmer yes the that
one the one who jumped around on the
stage developers developers developers
that one and he infamously called Linux
quote a cancer that attaches itself to
an intellectual property were in an
intellectual property sense to
everything it touches and that quote
didn't age very well in a webinar hosted
by MIT Microsoft commented on this the
president and chief legal officer Brad
Smith said that quote Microsoft was on
the wrong side of history
when open-source exploded at the
beginning of the century and I can say
that about me personally Smith went on
saying that the good news is that if
life is long enough you can learn that
you need to change true enough and it's
not really fair to say that this is the
same Steve Ballmer led Microsoft of the
early 2000 it's also hard to forget
Microsoft's sketchy history especially
in regards to its war with Linux but
Microsoft has since turned some corners
in regards to open source projects
most recently it announced its fluid
framework a system seemingly aimed at
taking the collaborative cloud software
crown from Google Docs and that is
supposed to be going open source there's
also a power toys a suite of tools for
power users resurrected from windows 95
and updated and developed for Windows 10
under the MIT license it's free open
source and hosted on github
there's also github by the way the based
collaborative code repository service
that Microsoft acquired which it uses
for its own open source projects smithy
even mentions Microsoft's github
acquisition as part of its commitment to
open source quote today Microsoft is the
single largest contributor to open
source projects in the world when it
comes to businesses when we look at
github we see it as the home for open
source development and we see our
responsibility as its steward to make it
a secure productive home perhaps most
notably there's also the windows
subsystem for
or WSL which is supposed to allow linux
and canoe distros for to be run in
Windows 10 without the overhead of a
virtual machine or a via w SL 2.0 is on
the way as well so while Microsoft was
on the wrong side of history
with regard to Linux or at least per its
own words it was it seems determined to
not let history repeat itself
or carry on whether you attribute this
stance to a paradigm shift in
Microsoft's leadership or to a paradigm
shift in just computing in general it
looks like change is happening rumor is
up next
early clock speeds Verizon 4000 as usual
these are rumors we have not
independently verified these specific
ones although typically we do try to get
some verification in advance this one we
didn't verify it independently so
whatever happens with it we'll see if
it's accurate but a report coming out of
Igor's labs seems to detail some early
clock speeds for rise ins at Vermeer
upcoming processors or rise in 4000 we
talked out the vermeer processors and
some previous news stories talked about
plans for ddr 5 for in or for AMD rather
and their upcoming architectures and
according to friend of the site Igor
they're already Xen 3 CPUs in the wild
with an a0 stepping on igor's site Igor
is lab de it looks like there's an early
engineering sample that's potentially in
the wild the samples in question are 8
core 16 thread and 16 core 32 thread
chips respectively according to the
ordering part numbers or Opie ends
ascertained through BIOS entries it
seems early clock speeds for the eight
core 16 thread variants are 4.6
gigahertz boost and 4.0 base the 16 core
32 thread chip seems to have a base and
boost of 3.7 14.6 respectively as this
is no doubt very early silicon these
frequencies will almost certainly rise
with the a1 step in revision at any rate
treat all this with a grain of salt
obviously this early in the process this
far before anything's announced it's
sort of dangerous to pin expectations on
numbers that we're seeing early they can
change positively or negatively
typically it will happen positively
because it's so early that you see more
conservative frequencies we've also seen
it go the other way though where people
on mass expected higher frequencies than
have been realistic so we're not sure
how this will develop but certainly
Vermeer is the next interesting item
from AMD to look at and if
you want more information on this we
encourage you to check out Igor's lab
da-te we're happy to give him a shout
out he does fantastic work a lot of it's
in German but he does often have a
translated article as well that he's
written in English in silos acquiring
rivet networks the company of tiller
Nick Fame the the best Nick we've ever
worked with never had any problems with
killer before except literally every
time I've tried to use it intel has
announced that it's acquiring rivet
networks for an undisclosed sum a
little-known fact is that rivet networks
actually started life as Bigfoot
networks
it wasn't until Qualcomm acquired the
company and subsequently spun it off a
few years later that it became rivet
networks Intel reports that rivet
networks team will be lumped into the
Intel Wireless Solutions Group which is
itself a part of Intel's broader client
computing group rivet networks products
and IP such as the killer brand will
roll into the Intel PC Wi-Fi portfolio
the driving factor behind rivet networks
being spun off from qualcomm was due to
the killer Nick brand stagnating under
that acquisition since becoming rivet
networks the killer brand has flourished
and seen wide adoption with OEMs and
motherboard makers an attack had a
chance to talk with rivet networks and
expressed concern and its discussion
piece that rivet may suffer the same
fate
under Intel rivet CEO Mike coverage will
move over to be Intel's senior director
of connectivity innovations according to
an attack seems to assuage some of those
concerns
according to coverage rivet networks
strengths both then and now lie within
PC and gaming and at least in that arena
both Intel's and rivet networks goals
are mutually congruent so one could
likely take the recent ax 201 and killer
AC 1535 chips as evidence of this
partnered with Intel on both solutions
and will have the additional information
from Intel's newsroom and the an entire
article linked in the show notes
document below if you want to read more
on either of these and video researchers
reproduced pac-man using AI only just in
time for pac-man's 40th anniversary in
japan researchers at Nvidia have
faithfully recreated the retro classic
with a game again game ganas Nvidia's
neural network model that emulates games
through games or generative adversarial
networks based on two separate but
competing
neural networks a generator and a
discriminator gengan can be trained to
recreate games without an underlying
game engine and such as the case with
pac-man the recreation is the result of
training game Gann with some 50,000
episodes a few million frames apparently
of pac-man quote this is the first
research to emulate a game engine using
Gann based neural networks said son will
Kim an Nvidia researcher and lead author
on the project we wanted to see whether
the AI could learn the rules of an
environment just by looking at the
screenplay of an agent moving through
the game and it did ends the quote the
game gained rendition relies solely on
AI to recreate all elements and rules of
the game and it can be done through
training the AI on screen recordings and
keystrokes from past gameplay the game
can version of pac-man faithfully honors
both simple and not so simple physics
and rules of the original for instance
if pac-man runs into a ghost the screen
flashes and it's game over alternatively
when pac-man successfully exits the maze
on one side he's transported back to the
opposite end just like the original
pac-man can't go through maze walls and
he eats dots and power pellets replete
with the appropriate effects the
research team used Nvidia's @dg act
systems to Train game again and the
pac-man demo will be available over at
AI playground as well as future game
game products furthermore Nvidia says
that game again isn't just about games
but has larger implications for how AI
could be used in the future quote we
could eventually have an AI that can
learn to mimic the rules of driving the
laws of physics just by watching videos
and scene agents take actions in an
environment says Sanja fiddler the
director of Nvidia's Toronto Research
Lab game Gann is the first step towards
that end video set and that will cover
us for hardware news for the week
there's a lot of coverage on the channel
as well that Intel's 10th generation as
they call it of CPUs the 10000 series
we're not sure yet if it's the 10 900k
the 10900 k the one zero nine zero zero
K or the ten nine hundred okay but it's
probably the last one so you can check
out the reviews on the channel if you
want to learn more about those CPUs
we've got the 10 700 K either up by now
or coming up shortly as well so you can
check that one out
thanks for watching you can back order
the mouse mat at store documents XS net
or the mod maps for that matter
sold out the same weekend and subscribe
for more go to patreon.com/scishow
there's a nexus to helps out in other
ways we'll see you all next time
[Music]